Hi again and welcome to part 13 of this master class.
Now, we're going to assume that you've been called for an interview and this is your time and this
is where you get to greet your interviewers.
Now, if you're in a phone call, if it's a phone interview, then obviously we talked about 93% of
your communication being nonverbal.
When you're on a phone call, then the entire body language part, which is 55%, gets taken out of
the equation because obviously they cannot see you.
So the remaining 45% of which 7% is what you say and 38% is your tone of voice.
These are still critical and these are what you will leverage during your phone call.
And to start with, you want to sound upbeat.
Now in his master class, Chris Voss, who was a leading FBI negotiator and he's also written the book
Never Split the Difference.
He talks about having three different tones of voice.
One is the late night FM deejay voice, which is when you want to come somewhere down.
And another is a submissive voice, which is ending sometimes with an upward inflection, and the third
is commanding.
You do not want to sound commanding.
You do not want to overpower your interviewer.
So when you greet someone, greet when you get that phone call, then introduce yourself with your name.
Hi, this is Sundar.
Or good morning.
This is Sundar or obviously whatever your name is.
That said, when you're in a video interview, the first thing you want to do is make sure that they
can hear and see you.
Okay, so introduce yourself.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
How are you today?
Things like that.
And then ask if they can see and hear you clearly if everything is okay and if automatically or all
of a sudden if the call video call is dropped or if the phone call is dropped, then is there a way
that you can contact them?
Again, this is a simple gesture that a lot of people miss out, but it will add a lot of value to the
interview, to your interview, and it will make you stand out as a candidate because you're taking
that extra effort to make sure that you're having the best experience and you're making sure that they
have the best experience and they have the best tools they need to gauge your interviewing skills.
When you interview in person, then you want to greet someone, of course, with a smile.
Of course, making eye contact.
And it's important to note that too much eye contact is also not good, as is not making any eye contact
at all.
And the reason for that is it's not a staring contest.
You want to make enough eye contact to give that person the impression that you're actively listening.
And the way to gauge yourself is you blink a certain number of times in a minute, and you can possibly
every time you blink, you can look away for a moment and then look back just to break the eye contact
for for a quick second and then come back to it.
When you shake hands, you want to shake hands by keeping your palm facing the side, not up or down.
This indicates submissive behavior and this indicates the dominating behavior.
You want to show neither of those.
When you use your other hand to touch someone's shoulder, for example, then that it's called a politician's
touch.
And it's not in your best interest to do that.
So let your other hand lose by your side and just use your dominant hand, your right hand to shake
twice and then let go, and that's it.
And when you shake, practice eye contact and say something, the correct response for how do you do
is How do you do?
It's not I'm fine or very well.
Whatever someone says, how do you do?
Then you say, How do you do?
And you can also greet and say good afternoon, good morning, good evening, whatever time of the day
it is.
And you can introduce yourself saying.
Good afternoon, Rahm.
Or I am Rahm or.
And that's it.
Now.
Don't focus too much on the handshake itself.
Keep it firm.
Not flaccid.
Not like this.
But keep it firm so that you can press firmly like this.
Shake twice and then let go.
And that's it.
Thank you very much for watching and I'm looking forward to seeing you in the next video.